all right let's talk a little bit about
the legacy of dr. Neal Barnard at this
point I think he is an eminence grise
he's at the end of his career he's a
senior influential figure in veganism as
a movement in certain provinces of
modern medicine and in a lot of ways
when a natural vegan went after him and
did this hatchet job from my perspective
denouncing and defaming him and his
position on diabetes really it's his
legacy she's going after not even any
kind of current project is going on ask
yourself this does anyone think that
PCRM is gonna dry up and disappear in
the next 10 years does anyone think that
I think PCRM has been the single most
important vegan agency vegan lobbying
group vegan charity in the last 10 years
I think is very likely to continue to be
the most important vegan foundation in
the next 10 years even if dr. Neal
Barnard dies tomorrow so that's part of
the background of this I respect what he
accomplished as a vegan activist in my
earlier video discussing some
tangentially related issues I noted that
dr. Neal Barnard
formal education credentials and
training are not in diabetes he did not
become a diabetes expert himself that
his actual background he is a medical
doctor who became a licensed and
practicing psychiatrist I think a lot of
people in the audience did not know that
about him what you more likely do know
about him because he mentions this in
lectures and in formal articles not
necessarily in peer-reviewed articles
pretty much any context or interview
where he's talking on himself is that he
grew up around the dinner table with an
expert in diabetes his father was a
career specialist in diabetes now I
digress to note I can relate to this on
many levels I grew up with not just a
father who was an expert in Musial G
Musial G me ting museums art galleries
education centers that kind of thing
I had both a father and a mother who
were experts in that field so every
single night at the dinner table I was
exposed to discussions of museum
planning art galleries government
contracts how that line
work operates everything from the
curatorial side the art history side to
researching political history if my
father was doing a war museum a museum
about World War two or something like
that human rights issues political
issues questions of government funding
versus private sector I grew up being
schooled in that subject every night and
a huge part of dr.neil barnard
background and why he was in a sense a
diabetes activist before he even became
a vegan activist is that he grew up
hearing his father's frustrations with
how diabetes was diagnosed and treated
in the mainstream American healthcare
system and he did so at a time when the
prevalence of diabetes was exploding in
the United States America again he is
now an elderly person in this movement
so he has lived through a period of time
where the area of his father's expertise
if you want for this way the war on
diabetes America is not winning they are
losing if merica did not win the war on
drugs they definitely did not win the
war on diabetes it already was an
epidemic and it has it has only become a
more grave challenge for for public
health planning and his perception his
mean apprehension his main concern that
again I think he really learned from his
father's experience and that carried on
to his own engagement his own he's
published numerous peer-reviewed studies
he's done a lot of work directly dealing
with management and treatment of
diabetes how to improve the diabetes
situation in America on a one-to-one
scale with patients on a mass scale
his main perception what the problem was
with adherence to a diet not the science
of the diet in an abstract sense but of
creating diets for diabetics that really
worked in their daily lives that they
could live with they could flourish with
where they were not feeling constantly
frustrated what have you and he already
had that interest before he became
engaged in veganism so it is really a
bit of a dirty trick when a natural
vegan takes kind of one sentence of
dr.neil barnard out of context and
massively exaggerates its significance
while ignoring his copious books
peer-reviewed publications and lectures
right here
on YouTube any of you can go right now
and see this kind of one sentence in the
context of what this guy is to say about
diabetes he is not mousy he doesn't give
his opinion to himself about diabetes
and this is interesting for me too
because this is my experience with a
natural vegan also she took one sentence
of my saying that her position on an
issue her position on domesticated dogs
and how pets are treated especially of
new with castration of dogs I she took
one sentence clip of me saying that her
position was beneath contempt and not
even worth discussing and she then
misrepresented the situation as if this
was the only thing I'd ever said on the
issue and there are products videos on
his channel discussing the issue in
depth so it's not that unusual for me to
just express my contempt and frustration
for position and then to proceed to
discuss in some depth in a long series
of videos and several of them already
were on the internet when she did this
hatchet job on me it's really surreal to
see her taking on a major influential
respected figure in veganism like
dr.neil barnard and doing a hatchet job
on him as if this little sound bite of
him that happened to be used in a
documentary movie represents I don't
know everything he knows about diabetes
as if that's his message to the diabetic
world and it's not it's a very brief
rough encapsulation of years of research
and experience that's very meaningful
and very useful that she's
misrepresenting as if this guy doesn't
know the first thing about diabetes as
if he's unaware that it is theoretically
possible to treat diabetes with a
low-carb high-fat diet like you want to
pat yourself on the back like you
inspire you discovered something new
this guy is never thought of no it's
it's really pretty fundamentally unfair
now something I'll come back to here is
I do think that Swayze has unstated
reasons that are rational but
unreasonable for why she doesn't want to
trust the opinion of dr. Neal Barnard I
think this is one of things we're
keeping it real being honest where they
don't
politics or philosophy or diet or you
know the misinterpretation of modern
medical science
swazey she comes out of a background
where she used to be a true believer in
a number of diet gurus and those diet
gurus look like neal barnard and if
we're keeping it all the way real I've
already stated I have a lot of respect
for Eno Bernard and his legacy as an
activist and as a as a you know medical
authority I do Neal Barnard looks
anorexic I said in the conclusion of one
of my recent videos most people that you
meet in all walks of life most people
most of the time they have the body they
want to have if you meet someone who is
shockingly rail-thin like dr. Neal
Barnard he probably wants to be real
thin he's that way for a reason he's
making whatever sacrifices are necessary
to make that possible and to maintain
that physique there are exceptions sorry
I should just throw in an obvious
example if you meet someone and they say
to you conversationally that they like
to be slim or they'd like to be athletic
but the reality of their life is what
they enjoy doing every day is getting
home from work and eating potato chips
while playing video games well there's a
sense in which they're being honest and
saying they'd like to have a better
physique but there's a sense in which
they're being dishonest with you and
dishonest with themselves well you know
what what you really like in life is
eating bags of potato chips and playing
video games so that's why you look the
way you do so that's what you want
you're doing exactly what you want
you're not waking up at 6 a.m. and
walking to the gym to do 200 push-ups in
the dark in the cold winter which is
something I do not today some days you
guys have seen some videos of me walking
to the gym bright and early in the
morning and it ain't bright around here
because the Sun does not rise that early
not in the Canadian winter ok so my
point is as a general rule there's a
sense in which people you encounter as
adults have the body they want to
especially if you consider what want
really means in a broad heuristic
context um there are exceptions I
mentioned this before I had a co-worker
many years ago and he had been slim and
muscular and he was a martial arts
enthusiast like kung-fu and ninjutsu
really serious martial arts fighting
arts and due to medical malpractice
he was hospitalized he had surgery
performed on him and when he came out he
was really in terrible shape and very
overweight he he was intravenously fed
to something like 10 times as many
calories as they should have given him
they made it orders of magnitude error
and how much sugar they were putting in
to his bloodstream through an IV drip
and he came out in a really bad shape so
really fat um very rare exception but
for sure there are people from this
doctor coming back to the locus of this
discussion a natural vegan used to be a
devout follower of durianrider why what
medical authority scientific expertise
or even convincing reasoning did during
rider have to offer during rider was a
rail-thin anorexic looking beauty icon I
guess he's beautiful to some right this
is not the only raw food guru or high
carb low fat guru fruit based diet guru
that she saw on the Internet she
responded to their appearance and and
she became a follower of and you
probably guys probably know the other
anecdotes
she became so devoted to one ridiculous
kind of naturopathic diet book that she
gave up brushing her teeth with
toothpaste and she had an enormous
number of calories and really lost a lot
of her teeth she tried to survive I
misspoke thanks that that's what you're
here for that's what we have the staff
she she had an enormous number of
cavities not calories so she really lost
a lot of her teeth um you know she's
someone who was in the past taken in by
presumably because on some level she
aspired to have a
a type that she doesn't have and never
will have we've seen her at her leanest
when she engaged in really crazy raw
food diet and slimmed down to maybe a
hundred and thirty pounds or less and
you know of course she's complained that
was not healthy for her was not natural
for her and she now has more of an ample
voluptuous body type which seems to come
to her naturally totally understand why
is she so hostile towards you know Neil
Bernards approach to diet now look
here's the big concession I don't want
to look like Neil Barnard I don't it's
it's not accidental in my calorie count
in my diet not wearing the best outfit
here you know I don't I never I never
look at Neil Barnard and think well I
should get on that Neil Barnard diet I'm
on a vegan diet that suits me anytime I
want to lose weight I basically can if I
just reduce the amount of soy milk in my
diet I'm gonna lose weight soy milk is
the main source of fat in my diet
whatever I also have a diet that doesn't
waste a lot of time there are all kinds
of practical considerations we deal with
it is true Neil Barnard advocates a diet
then I'm pretty sure he practices
himself and gives you results that make
you look like Neil Barnard so I think
that unnatural vegan has a rational but
unreasonable objection to the approach
of dr. Neal Barnard in her whole video
would be so much better if she just said
that if she just said you know what she
personally is fed up with vegans telling
you to eat zero nuts guess what I
personally zero nuts seeds zero peanut
butter need zero walnuts to really cut
down to eliminate all cooking oil and
this kind of thing to eat this super low
fat diet so you can be as scrawny and
strung out looking as dr.neil barnard or
Dermer that is her real animus that's
her real agenda and that's something a
lot of us can sympathize with there are
a lot of women who don't want to have a
body like Neil Barnard either there are
some who do there's some women who
really want this very lean elongated
physique there are a lot of women who'd
rather look like a natural vegan like
Swayze herself it's fine
I mean like with this is the other
fundamental thing about it being in diet
we're all trying to move past the
perception of the vegan diet is
something freakish and extreme and
trying to say look it's just normal
it doesn't make you superhuman it
doesn't make you subhuman it's possible
to be fat it's possible to be muscular
it's possible to be scrawny and you
probably know meat eaters who fall into
those party types either people eat at
McDonald's regularly and are still
scrawny I don't recommend it but it's
it's possible you see people say this
for on the cover of magazines
Cosmopolitan magazine fashion magazines
you are constantly seeing images of
meat-eating people women and men who are
lean and muscular so you can't pretend
that's unattainable
conversely don't pretend that Neil
Bernards body is gonna be your
inevitable fate and doom most men do not
want to have a body like Oprah dark
shout out to foot soldier
you know vegan foot soldier just started
lifting weights in the last three months
he's finally decided he's fed up with
being a stick man as he put it you know
he put up some shirtless selfies and
stuff he had I think it's fair to say he
had the body of a young Neil Barnard and
I don't know maybe he's gonna move up to
having the body of a middle-aged about
what's y'all I don't know what's I don't
know what his goals are I talked to him
about a little bit but he's he's trying
to get in at the gym and lift weights
and stuff and for the for the first time
in his life
my girlfriend mention real briefly she's
gained a ton of muscle mass so she go
with me but I wasn't when we first got
together she couldn't do upright row
with just the stick just the just the
steel bar and stuff like I was like whoa
you're starting from a really low level
of strength and she has built that up
both both muscle strength and sinew and
so on so I've just been through her
transformation which is of some interest
to me to see that up close so look
why does Neil Barnard say what he says
in these short sound bites that a
natural vegan takes out of context
misrepresenting frankly his life's work
on diabetes which is low and
sick and shady and god damn you Swayze
for doing that
I can't believe you didn't take the time
to just Google around a bit and find out
what his position on diabetes is real
quick there are two types of diabetes
we're not going to all the details there
are other types of diabetes type 1 and
type 2 is it a gross misrepresentation
to say if everyone on earth were vegan
from birth type 1 diabetes would
disappear from this world specialists
can debate it guess what type 1 diabetes
is an autoimmune reaction to dairy
products this is to say your doctor may
give you the reassuring fable that if
you have type 1 diabetes oh it's just
heredity it's just genetics there's
nothing anyone can do know the
conclusions of modern medical science
are either that 100% of type 1 diabetes
is caused by dairy dairy products or it
may be that it's 90 percent or 95
percent and there are a few other
factors to fill in so there are some
interesting debates going on right now
about exactly which chemicals in cow
milk caused this reaction and to what
extent goat milk is different and
believe it or not different breeds of
cow have different chemical compositions
in their milk to what extent it's this
chemical or that chemical or what's
causing the direction but one way or
another the science is in type 1
diabetes is caused by animal products
period so why do you misrepresent this
guy as if he's saying something grossly
inaccurate and unreasonable in blaming
animal products oh it's just ridiculous
and wife
what's your counter-argument because you
can quote unquote manage diabetes with
it Ecole Atkins diet [ __ ] high fat low
why eat fruit when you can just wake up
and eat avocados make avocados the
staple of your diet it's so stupid it's
irrelevant to the point he's making no
on the level of Epidemiology on the
level of diabetes
being a mass epidemic phenomenon in the
United States of America he is correct
to blame animal products
he has decades of research in
peer-reviewed publications backing him
you a natural vegan allegedly have so
much respect for peer-reviewed
publications
why didn't you Google one of them why
didn't you read the abstracts - five of
them why didn't you contrast them to the
opinions of other experts in diabetes
before doing the shitty smear job
against the single most effective
thinking activists of the last decade
what did you have to gain that's just
type one diabetes
okay type-2 diabetes it is true it's not
completely fair and accurate to just say
all type-2 diabetes is caused by an
works that would be inaccurate but let's
rephrase this would it be fair to say
that in the United States of America
today
if everyone were vegan from birth type-2
diabetes would burn me would disappear
from this earth doesn't really rhyme
alright it's debatable if everyone were
vegan from birth would the rate of
diabetes in the United States of America
declined by 90 percent 95 percent or
would actually be 100 percent would
actually completely disappear all right
now I don't think Neil Barnard is making
a hard claim that it's a hundred percent
that 100% of cases of type 2 diabetes
could be eliminated by everyone being
thing important but it's pretty close if
you just do a little bit of reading it's
shockingly close and yes diabetes type 2
diabetes now we're on to type 2 type 2
diabetes is linked to obesity
theoretically people in the United
States of America could be getting
massively obese from being vegan from
birth does the data support that how
about just the years and years of
experience that this one doctor himself
has working with vegans face-to-face
sorry working with people with diabetes
face to face as they transition to a
vegan diet and recover like do you think
that experience bores the how about you
fathers experienced yeah some of this is
anecdotal some of it's meta-analysis but
no it is not the case that are in the
United States of America you have
millions of people coming down with type
2 diabetes because they're eating
avocados on a pure vegan diet this is
not on an epidemiological level the
problem okay guys I considered taking
little short clips of exactly what a
natural vegan said and exactly what dr.
Neal Barnard said and putting them
side-by-side in this video I think
that's a waste of your time and I think
that's a waste of my time in politics we
have this funny phrase a bad actor
someone acting in bad faith
what's the definition of a bad actor
it's someone you can't negotiate with
these are important discussions for us
to have in veganism about the future of
the movement but the future of the diet
about the future of how we diagnose and
discuss and treat diabetes and whether
we should support charities that are
more like PCRM and based in health and
science or whether we should support
other forms of activism where our money
is best spent and where our time and
energy does these are really worthwhile
discussions to have but we can't have
them with unnatural vegan because she is
a bad actor her coverage of this issue
of the debate surrounding type 1
diabetes type 2 diabetes and the role of
animal products in creating this
epidemic in the United States of America
and globally has been completely
dishonest and self-serving so let's
proceed with these discussions let's
proceed in creating the foundation to
save the planet and save the animals and
save millions of people from having
heart attacks and diabetes but let's do
it without her